Welcome back.
This is technically part two of structuring a large flash application so far we haven't really changed
the contents of any files.
We've simply just reorganized everything into separate directory components for the views that py files.
However we'll need to add them as blueprints and then register them to our IT thought by file.
So here is we're really actually going to be editing the actual contents of a python file.
So far we've really just been using the same files as before in a different location.
So what's left to do is to add in the views that PI content at in the blueprints register those blueprints
then add in the app that PI content for main application file and then I want to do a quick review of
how to actually do your for calls in the nav bar.
When you're using blueprints.
So just a couple of steps here and I'll actually go pretty fast.
I think you'll find it quite surprising how simple at the end they'll all be OK.
Let's get started.
OK.
Here I am back at the project from our last lecture.
The things we still need to do are set up our views that py file both for owners and for puppies.
Then after that we'll connect them to our in it up PI file as well as fill up our app that by then at
the end of all this we'll run our migrations create our database and then see to make sure everything
works OK.
Let's start by going into our owner's directory.
And then underneath owners directly underneath it I'll create a new file.
Called views up high.
In fact I've actually already created that file right here.
So again the pathway that I'm at right now is owner's views that pi and this whole thing is under the
my project folder.
So this is the file I'm in right now.
My project owner's views that by first thing going to do is say from flask import and I'm going to import
blueprints and I'll also import render template redirect and then your L for that I need to actually
reference that database.
So to do that I'll save from my project import D.B then also save from my project models import owner
and then from my project owners.
Well that right owners thought forms import add a form.
OK so what this is doing is it's importing the database from that in it that pile which is underneath
my project and then my project it has its own models up-I file remember we have that owner model in
there.
We'll be needing it and then we'll also be needing the form from the owners folder.
So we say from project or my project owners forms import add form.
So it's basically saying underneath this file are here owners fill their forms up by grabbing this ad
form OK now that we've done that.
Let's set up the blueprint.
I'm going to create a variable code owners blueprints and I'm going to equal to an instance of a blueprint.
First thing to do is we'll give it a name so we'll just call it owners and then we pass an the built
in name variable and then finally you assign a template folder essentially where should it look for
its templates.
And in this case to make sure it works we just say template underscore folder is equal to.
And I will say templates for Slash owners and they're going you can always copy and paste this code
from our actual file.
Ok so so far we set up our own blueprint.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy and paste the actual view for adding an owner.
So this is pretty much the same view that we saw earlier.
It's just an out of view except this time it's just called add ins that have an owner recreate the form
that we imported from our owners foreign file.
We say OK if everything's valid on some mission we just initiate a new owner and add them to our database
and then we redirect and notice redirecting.
I'm saying your L for.
And instead of saying Just list now I'm saying puppies that list because when you start registering
the blueprints what's going to happen is you're gonna be able to register it to this name dot the view.
So later on if I want to link to owners ad I would just say owners ad which you'll see later on.
Now the next step is to actually route this at a view using our owner's blueprint.
So what we do is we create a decorator and say owner's blueprints route and they're going to pass and
the route you want.
So in this case we'll say forward slash and and notice here.
I don't need to say owners.
Slash and that's going to be in the registering of the blueprint later on in there in at that pie file.
And since there is a form in this view just like we did earlier on it's same methods as equal to the
list of gets post and then save those changes.
OK let's quickly discuss what we just did here.
We are normal imports with flask.
Now we also added in blueprint then we're saying from my project import D-B.
So when we say from my project import something I'm really saying go to that in that pie file underneath
my project and import something from there that I'm saying OK from the models folder underneath my project
import the owner model and then from my project subfolder owners so file forms import add a form.
So that's how we're able to grab this out of form and this owner for our view.
Again our view hasn't really changed what's changed is the routing for that view with the blueprint.
Now let's check out views for puppies.
Let's go to that file again.
Right now I'm going to Neith my puppy's folder looking at these up high.
So that's where I'm currently located.
We're going to add in some imports and I'm going to copy and paste these imports save ourselves a little
bit of time here essentially just importing the same lines as they did last time for my project B.
Except this time I'm saying from puppies forms import add form and delete form and then from the models
import the puppy model.
Very similar to what we just did in the owners.
Now what I'm going to do is set up my puppies underscore blueprint is equal to blueprints and I'm going
to pass and puppies I'll passen the name variable and then we'll say template folder is equal to and
the puppy templates can be found under templates.
Puppies say that and then we need to set up our forms essentially our views for adding a puppy listening
puppy and leading a puppy on copy and paste from the notes.
They're essentially the same views that we just created earlier.
So we have an ad puppy view almost the exact same thing as what we just saw for the owners except this
time lotas to redirect saying puppies that list.
So we're actually going to have a list of you as well so I'll say a list of you.
And then finally we'll have a delete view.
So it's copy and paste that as well.
Copy and paste delete.
The last thing I need to do is set up the routing for each of these views.
So we're going to do is the following will say puppies underscore blueprints the route and for the add.
I'm just going to say forward slash.
And just like that and the owners except remember this is going to register two puppies forward slash.
And then since there's a form in this page will say methods is equal to
and post.
So that sets up our view.
Now let's set up our list view then we'll just connect the routing here on this list view we'll see
at puppy's blueprint the route and we'll pass that to list.
There's no form on this page so no need to set the methods.
And then here will say puppies blueprints routes and then we'll say delete and this does have a method
so say methods is equal to gets and post saved that OK.
So essentially use these blueprints for routing within their own views that py file.
But in order to make sure those routes work what we need to do is register those in our in it thought
by file.
So back underneath or in it that PI file underneath my project folder I've already set up my configurations
for forms and my siecle databases and I set up my database as well as my ability to migrate my database
with my application.
Now the next step is to actually register those blueprints with my in at that PI file and something
to note here is often you'll do all your imports at the top.
But in order for the DB to be defined by the time the blueprints are using them when need to register
blueprints after we've done and defined DBI.
So right below this we're going to say from.
Let me create some new lines here so we can see the center screen will say from my project
that puppies that use import puppies blueprint and then we'll do the same for the owners will say from
my project.
The owner's views import owners blueprint.
Then once we've done that we can grab our application and register those blueprints which is just a
call register underscore blueprint.
You pass in the blueprint that you just imported.
So for example the owner's blueprint and then we give it to your prefix that we wanted to have.
Typically it should match the name of that blueprint.
So will say owners that will do the same thing for the puppies will say register the blueprint passin
puppies blueprint your L prefix and set that equal to.
In this case forward slash puppies OK say that and we've pretty much set up everything we need.
The last thing we need to do is actually put everything in the app file to connect to our home page.
So underneath our app that py file.
So this is the very basic app that pi at the same level of the my project folder so keep that in mind
underneath my project.
If I collapse my project I still see that pie.
So underneath this apple pie file I'll say from my project import app which is going to import the app
created here on line 7 of the in that pie file and then they'll say from flask import rendered template.
Then I just need to set up the route for the first page the home page will say app routes forward slash
the index.
And here I'm just going to say return rendered template of the home h T.M..
So this is going to have direct access to any templates that were underneath the templates folder here.
Base HTML and home page T.M..
And then after all that will just say if name is equal to Main take my app and run it with debug mode
equal to true save all those changes and we should be ready to begin testing.
The last thing I want to do is actually set up our database.
So open up our command line here.
Now we're going to say flask D-B and it's and after your run that flask D-B in it.
You should get something like this generating and then please add a configuration if you got some sort
of error here.
That means you made a typo.
And if that's the case it's going to be pretty much impossible for us to help from our end.
Instead what you should be doing is then just running our files directly.
So please keep in mind at this stage if you've made a typo and you've gotten an error on Flast the be
in it please use our files directly.
OK with that being said we're going to do next.
Say flask.
D.B migrate and we'll just say created puppies and owners will hit enter that will create the migrations.
And finally let's run those migrations by saying Flast the upgrade.
Hit enter and now we have our tables and our models running.
OK so now let's actually run this and see if it works.
So what we need to do is run our actual application file.
So I will say Python WIPs python app potpie enter.
Looks like debug mode is on.
So let's see if we were actually able to run this.
If not we'll do a little debugging.
OK we're going to bring in our site now.
Welcome to the puppy adoption page.
So that's good news.
Looks like the home page is working.
Let's now come to add pup and let's add in a puppy to this page.
So let's just go ahead and add in Rufus as a puppy will add that puppy.
And now we've been redirect to here's a list of all available puppies.
Puppy name is Rufus.
Has no owner assigned yet so the indexing here should start a position one for Rufus.
So let's go ahead and add an owner for Rufus will set the name of the owner as David and the ID they
should be linked to is then puppy 1 and then we'll add the owner.
And now that takes me back to THE LIST.
Here's a list of all available puppies.
Puppy name is Rufus and owner is David perfect so looks like the last few We need to check is delete
pup and then we'll click Remove puppy.
And now here's a list of all the puppies.
There's no more puppies there.
OK.
Perfect.
Looks like everything's working just as before.
Except now we have it in subcomponents which are going to be more manageable when we want to add more
views to our project.
All right.
If you have any questions.
Make sure to check our notes very carefully.
This is probably one of those things where it's super easy to make a typo.
As you follow along so I'd really suggest that you use our code as a skeleton framework instead of trying
to type everything out manually yourself.
OK we'll see you at the next lecture.